Before we wrap up this lesson,
I want to show you one more quick analysis into this.
I did some minor exploration and enhanced the data a bit to produce these,
which are things we'll cover in our exploratory data analysis course.
So I wanted to see if data related jobs are in
demand and if there are any notable trends.
Ignore all the fancy code here,
feel free to dig into if you'd like but it's not really the core aspect of this bit.
So here is a line plot.
On the x axis we have year and on
the y axis we have the percentage of job postings that are data
related which I've roughly defined as
postings that have the word data in their job title or job description.
So notice percentage and not total.
This is another rate versus total situation like the one we encountered in
my personal wrangling example for that hockey analysis.
There are fewer job postings in the earlier years like 2004,
2005 compared to 2014 and 2015,
so it will be unfair to compare totals.
I told you we'd encounter another decision like this.
So, look at that trend.
The demand for data skills looks to be on the rise in this data set,
which corroborates what we're
hearing in the media.
There is a link to this article in the notes below but we create
2.5 quintillion bytes of data every day says IBM,
one of Udacity's hiring partners,
which is so much that 90 percent of the data in the world day,
has been created in the last two years alone.
This new influx of data means data skills have become hugely important but also scarce,
relative to that need.